Release v0.9.0 with accompanying blog post (#75)
unikraft/docs: content/en/blog/2022-06-13-unikraft-releases-hyperion.md

Unikraft has introduced a new API which provides an abstraction over all the architecture-dependent hardware details.
Already, [`arm64`](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/373) has implemented this API with on-going work for introducing [`x86_64`](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/244).
This new API makes it easy to add SMP support for future architectures and standardizes the use of SMP within Unikraft for true multi-core support.

Multi-core support is a heavily requested feature for Unikraft and this new API takes strides in making this a reality.

#### Implementing the API for a new architecture

Inside the Unikraft SMP implementation, the hardware information that is hidden by our API needs to be saved and accessed.
This is done using an array of CPU architecture-specific data structures.
On ARM, CPU structures are initialized during the platform setup with  information read from the device tree.
The caller will always refer to the CPUs using logical IDs.
These will be integers between `0` and the maximum number of cores in the system.
The logical ids are just indexes from the SMP internal array just described.

> Architecture implementations must provide the following functions as described in [`/plat/common/include/uk/plat/common/lcpu.h`](#https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/blob/RELEASE-0.9.0/plat/common/include/uk/plat/common/lcpu.) which then hook into:

Reviewer: I think an `h` is missing at the end of the URL, like:
`#https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/blob/RELEASE-0.9.0/plat/common/include/uk/plat/common/lcpu.h`

The role of this new library is to provide a standard way of passing information via getter and setter functions from one place to another within Unikraft and between library boundaries.
The role of `ukstore` has many future applications for the project, for example: [registering monitoring hooks and counters through Unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/279); providing unmodified Linux application access to system information via a procfs API;  registering device-specific information (similar to `xenstored`); and, generally providing callbacks within different subsystems.

`ukstore` has been designed with two methods of registering entries containing getters and setters.
The first method offers a ways to register folders with entries which can be used in other places in the program and unikernel.
Each folder is part of a linked list and holds entries also arranged into a linked list.
This approach is taken to ensure that the implementation does not add new vulnerabilities and so that the attack surface is kept at a minimum.
This first approach is known as dynamic and occurs at runtime.

> However, since runtime registeration can impact the boot-time, another method provided is to use static registration which occurs at compile-time.
> With this method, all entries are created at compile-time but remain to be accessed at runtime, though no new entries can be registered using this method.
> For now, the implemention provided in v0.9.0 only consists of static registration with [on-going working to provide dynamic registration by v0.10.0](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/460).
> Overall, when used, both registration methods provide identical functionality, the only difference being that static registrations are not modified as they do not change throughout the execution of the application.
> 
> In general the structure of both registration methods is similar.
> The main difference is how the entries and folders are structured in the memory.
> Static entries are ordered in an array saved in a sections table and dynamic entries are held inside folders within memory as an ordered linked list.
> Because of this, searching for static folders is faster, thanks to cache storage locality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike dynamic entries, the registration process of static entries is not done during boot. The linker will create a per-library list of entries via per-library created `ukstore` sections, no entry allocation is necessary at run-time.
Additionally, for efficiency reasons, `ukstore` is not looking up libraries by its name strings but on a compile-time generated identifier. This enables making the library lookup a `O(1)` operation. Only searching an entry within a library is currently a `O(n)` operation.
```

> In order to allocate only the space strictly necessary in static registrations, link-time sections are generated for each library that is part of the current build.
> To do this, the build system is invoked to generate a list of all used libraries.
> With this list, headers and linker scripts are generated and are used by the build.
> Each library can easily add new registrations in its own storage and access information stored in others.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### Usage

To use static registration within your lib `libmylib`, `ukstore` will have to be first included:
```c
#include <uk/store.h>
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The header is always available but adopts accordingly if `ukstore` is part of the build. Code for static entry registration can be preserved because the pre-processor is going to remove all instrumentation when `ukstore` is not part of the build.

```

Afterwards you can very simply register your getters & setters via the exposed macro:

```c
UK_STORE_STATIC_ENTRY(

>   my_registered_entry,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  name,
```

  type,

>   my_getter,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  getter,
```

>   my_setter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  setter,
  cookie
```

);
```
Where:

> - `my_registered_entry` - the name of the ukstore entry (this will be used to access it);
> - `type` - the type of the entry (`s8`, `u8`, `s16`, `u16`, `s32`, `u32`, `s64`, `u64`, `uptr`, `charp`);
> - `my_getter` - the function that returns the metric;
> - `my_setter` - the function that sets a metric.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `name` - the name of the ukstore entry (this will be used to access it). Here, it is not a string, so no quoting;
- `type` - the type of the entry (`s8`, `u8`, `s16`, `u16`, `s32`, `u32`, `s64`, `u64`, `uptr`, `charp`);
- `getter` - the reference to the getter function (optional);
- `setter` - the reference to the getter function (optional);
- `cookie` - An extra argument that is handed over to the getter and setter functions;
```

A function that returns a `u8` will have this signature:

```c

> int my_getter(void *cookie, __u8 *dst);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
static int my_getter(void *cookie __unused, __u8 *dst)
{
   UK_ASSERT(dst);

   *dst = metric;
   return 0;
}
UK_STORE_STATIC_ENTRY(my_metric, u8, my_getter, NULL, NULL);
```

```

> After this the metric is registered and can be accessed anywhere within the application or the unikernel.
> The cookie is optional and it is used as extra storage for dynamic entries.
> 
> For quick access to the registered entries, you can pre-emptively get and save them inside any init function, like so:
> 
> You will first need some space to save it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Afterwards, you are able to access the entry with `uk_store_get_entry()` and get its current metric value with `uk_store_get_value()`. We have chosen this split in order to speed-up successive entry lookups. For instance, in a monitoring loop you could save the reference of an entry instead of invoking each time a lookup. This avoids causing string comparisons over all library entries each time the metrics value is queried:
```

```c
static struct uk_store_entry *my_registered_entry;

> my_registered_entry = uk_store_get_entry(libmylib, NULL, "my_registered_entry");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
my_registered_entry = uk_store_get_entry(libmylib, NULL, "my_metric");
```

```
Where:

> - `libmylib` - library where you are getting the entry from (you can see the registration of the library within `build/libukstore/include/uk/_store_libs.h` if you are unsure);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `libmylib` - library where you are getting the entry from (see also `build/libukstore/include/uk/bits/store_libs.h`);
```

- `NULL` - the folder you are getting the entry from (`NULL` for static entry);

> - `"my_registered_entry"` - the name of the entry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `"my_entry"` - the name of the entry that you are looking for, this time as quoted string.
```

> Then, when appropriate, you can retrieve the value:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its current metric value is retrieved with:
```

```c

> uk_store_get_value(my_registered_entry, type, &storage);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__u8 cur_metric;
uk_store_get_value(my_entry, u8, &curr_metric);
```

```
Where:

> - `my_entry` - the entry extracted before;
> - `type` - the type of the storage (can be different from the one in the entry but you have to be careful to check if `-ERANGE` may be returned);
> - `storage` - variable to store the metric returned through `ukstore`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `my_entry` - the entry extracted before;
- `u8` - Actually, the type field for the target variable. The value is automatically up- or down-casted if source and target type do not match. In case the target type is too small to hold the value, `-ERANGE` is returned;
- `&curr_metric` - the actual reference of the target variable to store the result.
```

> When `uk_store_get_value` is invoked, `my_getter` is ultimated called.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, calling `uk_store_get_value()` will ultimately invoke `my_getter()`.
```
